---
layout: post
title: "Visual Search: metrics learning"
excerpt: "Searching with images"
modified: 11/12/2017, 11:00:00
tags: [lstm, time series, neural networks, deep learning, recurrent neural networks, pedestrian tracking, trajectory modelling]
comments: false
category: mscproject
---

OLX Group operates a network of online trading platforms in over 40 countries under market-leading brands such as Avito, dubizzle, letgo, OLX, Stradia, Storia, and more, that are used by over 300 million people every month to buy and sell almost anything, creating win-win exchanges for people, their communities and the environment. OLX Group is a part of Naspers. Founded in 1915, Naspers is a global internet and entertainment group and one of the largest technology investors in the world. Operating in more than 120 countries and markets with long-term growth potential, Naspers builds leading companies that empower people and enrich communities. It runs some of the world’s leading platforms in internet, video entertainment, and media.

The Personalization & Relevance team at OLX is increasing transactions between buyers and sellers by showing the most relevant content to our users. We are developing personalization technologies and optimization strategies that fuel the discovery of new items and have a direct impact on OLX’s bottom line. A picture is worth a thousand words: OLX is a gold mine for unique hard to find items. While sellers often use few words to describe the items they are selling, many buyers find it hard to formulate their intent into a search query. We are researching deep learning techniques to enable users to visually search through millions of items by either taking a photo or using any image online as a search query.

Implement a search algorithm that finds visually similar images. Two main challenges of the project are 
-	the solution shall learn similarity metrics;
-	the solution shall provide efficient instance retrieval.
