---
layout: post
title: Classification algorithm: one-shot and zero-shot learnings 
excerpt: ""
modified: 11/14/2017, 23:00:00
tags: [lstm, time series, neural networks, deep learning, recurrent neural networks, pedestrian tracking, trajectory modelling]
comments: false
category: mscproject
---

Analysis of the shape of sequences of measurements is of interest in different domains and applications. Tracking movement of objects, analyzing shape of geographical features and particularly when large number of objects or trajectories demonstrate certain emergent properties.

In recent years, at Eindhoven University of Technology, a number of pioneering experimental observations of crowds have been performed with high spatial and temporal resolution and with the ability to reconstruct exhaustively the trajectories of individuals inside crowds [1][2]. As the trajectories are produced by tracking different people with different roles in the given context they also demonstrate different properties. A self-lerning solution that automatically uncovers the patterns in the traffic and finds clusters of trajectories is motivated. It is furthermore suitable to have a solution with which a domain expert can interact and provide a supervision signal that would guide the learning process. In this project we propose investigation of developments in sequence to sequence modelling with Deep Learning, particularly with recurrent neural network auto-encoders[3] for learning representations of recorded trajectories. The goal of this project is to build upon the developed representations to enable pattern recognition methods on the high dimensional time-series data. 

We consider expanding the scope of any developed methods to other time series data sets where the shape of the sequence is of interest.

This project will involve supervision from Alessandro Corbetta and Vlado Menkovski
 
[1] [A. Corbetta, C. Lee, R. Benzi, A. Muntean, F. Toschi. Fluctuations around mean walking behaviours in diluted pedestrian flows, Phys. Rev. E. 95, 032316, 2017](https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.07429)

[2] [A. Corbetta, J.A. Meeusen, C. Lee, F. Toschi. Continuous measurements of real-life bidirectional pedestrian flows on a wide walkway, Proceedings of Pedestrian and Evacuation Dynamics 2016, 18-24, 2016](https://arxiv.org/abs/1607.02897)

[3] [Sutskever, Ilya, Oriol Vinyals, and Quoc V. Le. "Sequence to sequence learning with neural networks."Advances in neural information processing systems. 2014.](https://arxiv.org/abs/1409.3215)OLX Group operates a network of online trading platforms in over 40 countries under market-leading brands such as Avito, dubizzle, letgo, OLX, Stradia, Storia, and more, that are used by over 300 million people every month to buy and sell almost anything, creating win-win exchanges for people, their communities and the environment. OLX Group is a part of Naspers. Founded in 1915, Naspers is a global internet and entertainment group and one of the largest technology investors in the world. Operating in more than 120 countries and markets with long-term growth potential, Naspers builds leading companies that empower people and enrich communities. It runs some of the world’s leading platforms in internet, video entertainment, and media.
The Personalization & Relevance team at OLX is increasing transactions between buyers and sellers by showing the most relevant content to our users. We are developing personalization technologies and optimization strategies that fuel the discovery of new items and have a direct impact on OLX’s bottom line. A picture is worth a thousand words: OLX is a gold mine for unique hard to find items. We are researching deep learning techniques to make it easier for sellers to describe the item they are selling.
Your task is to implement a solution to predict the category of an item based on one or multiple images of the item. We provide two datasets containing items from the same category. In dataset 1, the items are further split into 400 sub-categories and are represented by stock photos. In dataset 2, the items are split into 15 sub-categories and are represented by user-generated photos. The solution shall allow modifying and adding categories without significant retraining. It shall also support transfer learning from model trained on dataset 1 to dataset 2.