---
layout: post
title: Deep Listing Corrector 
excerpt: ""
modified: 11/14/2017, 11:00:00
tags: [lstm, time series, neural networks, deep learning, recurrent neural networks, pedestrian tracking, trajectory modelling]
comments: false
category: mscproject
---

OLX Group operates a network of online trading platforms in over 40 countries under market-leading brands such as Avito, dubizzle, letgo, OLX, Stradia, Storia, and more, that are used by over 300 million people every month to buy and sell almost anything, creating win-win exchanges for people, their communities and the environment. OLX Group is a part of Naspers. Founded in 1915, Naspers is a global internet and entertainment group and one of the largest technology investors in the world. Operating in more than 120 countries and markets with long-term growth potential, Naspers builds leading companies that empower people and enrich communities. It runs some of the world’s leading platforms in internet, video entertainment, and media.
The Personalization & Relevance team at OLX is increasing transactions between buyers and sellers by showing the most relevant content to our users. We are developing personalization technologies and optimization strategies that fuel the discovery of new items and have a direct impact on OLX’s bottom line. We are researching deep learning techniques to make it easier for sellers to describe the item they are selling.
The goal of the project is to propose a solution that can automatically improve a textual description of a listed item provided by the user on a classified platform. The task is to construct a domain-specific sequence-to-sequence model capable of processing a sample of a listing description and generating a corrected version of that sample.
